This is a current PROGRESS snap shot of the KG-OS Pro system. It is NOT YET in release form but is simply a preview of the current progress. The next thing that will be finalized will be editing existing filament profiles, then adding/deleting filament profiles, and
finally getting it fully universal by adding a "setup wizard" that will ask the user a few questions about the physical hardware of their printer to allow certain macros to change their behavior as necessary.

Update 01-16-2026:

System is ready for transfer tests to other printers. Features include Filament Profile Create/Edit/Delete, Filament-Specific PID tunes with automatic updating, Abnormal Stop Recovery that works for any type of print interruption, Automatic layer timing with 3-stage layer time/speed control including a 2-stage printer throttle logic to reduce and restore velocity limit to adapt to real-time print conditions, Initialization Sequence that is fully guided and enforced, System has NO BLIND ERRORS meaning the user is informed of the corrective action and given a direct path to corrective action in the error message itself, More precise printer control to define flow rates and fan speeds that the slicer does not differentiate such as overhang flow vs bridge flow and solid infill flow and fan speed, Hardware-specific logic for system behavior, and System is 100% Interactive with no need to touch the configuration editor in Fluidd/Mainsail. Uploaded zip file with all files and logic needed.

Update 01-16-2026:

Fixed a few minor bugs in the filament profile change/delete and messages that were called that were redundant, then prohibited deletion of current profile to prevent a "ghost state" of the printer where a deleted profile is still in active memory. Will be continuing to test the system before final release.

Update 01-17-2026:

Found and corrected bug that if user selects yes to leveling bed during initialization and the printer passes the Z gap check before leveling the bed without needing adjustment, the printer will erroneously level the bed on the next initialization even if the user selects no to leveling bed on that initialization. Found that the command to reset the variable was placed in the incorrect place and would not be reset if the printer passed the gap check without needing adjustment. Relocated the command to reset the variable so this no longer happens.

Update 01-18-2026

THESE UPDATES ARE NOT REFLECTED IN THE LATEST VERSION POSTED! I decided to go a step further with things. I have added a filament check to the _START_PRINT macro and an other line to the slicer's start print gcode section that saves a variable with the current print's filament type so that the _START_PRINT macro can verify this and give the user a caution if the file was sliced for a different filament than the active profile. I have also added a limt check to the create and edit filament profile functions that will prevent someone from entering an invalid parameter that will cause a print to error and interrupt. I am also adding another value to the Setup Wizard for the printer being in an enclosure or not to change some other behaviors within the system for safety. I have also decided to make an E-step Test for the user to check their E-steps and then enter the actual measurement into a drop down menu which will automatically re-calculate the correct rotation distance and update the system accordingly and I am going to add the ability to change the heater maximum temperatures from the UI as well. The end goal is to make it so the user does not have to touch the config editor for any reason unless they are adding their own macros or making significant changes to the system.

Update 02-17-2026

Uploaded latest version. Several changes have been made to enhance the system overall. Added a setting for whether the printer is in an enclosure or not so that it can affect the behavior of the recovery system. When in an enclosure and an interruption happens, it will now automatically turn the bed heater back on as soon as the delayed gcode runs to prompt the user for recovery. This minimizes the amount of time when the bed heater is off and maximizes the chances of the print remaining adhered to the bed. If the printere is NOT in an enclosure, it leaves all heaters off until the user accepts the recovery. This is for safety reasons. There is also the ability to stay armed after a print. This feature has existed in all versions, but is now disabled when the printer is NOT in an enclosure. The behavior has been modified to work in a safe manner. Minimum layer time has also been added to the filament profiles to be used in the _CHECK_INTERVAL and _ADAPTIVE_SPEED_CONTROL systems as well as the logic enhanced within those systems which makes things easier to tune for the user. I am also going to add the ability to change these parameters from the UI rather than from the config editor. I am also changing the retraction setting for the hop dwell in _CHECK_INTERVAL to be the slicer's retraction for that filament.

The most major advancement is a CUSTOM SLICER that is written to directly work with KG-OS Pro. It is a KLIPPER ONLY slicer based on Prusa, Bambu, and Orca. It is actually made from the Orca source code. Here are some of the major features:

- ADDED the Over-Bridge Speed from Prusa Slicer that SHOULD have been in the original Orca code but was NOT.
- Has a KG-OS Pro mode
- Non-KG-OS Pro mode works like a normal slicer in Klipper GCode Flavor mode
- KG-OS Pro Mode changes the extrusion role change to a macro call instead of a ";TYPE:*" comment and actually passes the percent of overhang of an overhung wall to the printer to calculate a flow reduction to prevent the extrusion from spilling over the side and creating a noticeably-thicker outer wall on the overhang, allows the PRINTER to control acceleration, square corner velocity, flow rate, and fan speed INDEPENDENTLY per line type which reduces file size and therefore making Klipper operate more efficiently, sets a variable for calibration tests that cancels certain advanced functions to prevent them from interfering with the calibration, and changes some other KG-OS Pro-dependent behaviors
- Adds an overhang speed logic to internal solid infill for LOW ANGLE top surfaces where no bridge is printed under the cascading solid infill and causes a problem that snowballs which breaks up the top surface.
- Adds overhang rules to INTERNAL overhangs because sparse infill DOES NOT support internal overhangs properly
- Removes Marlin, Marlin 2, and RepRap support
- Re-colored GUI
- Adds a placeholder for layer type and estimated layer time to be used for various other features
- Uses the DEFAULT web browser rather than MS Edge WebView that DOES NOT allow file downloads such as Timelapse video or config backups
- 3D Fuzzy Skin that will allow the Z axis to partake in fuzzy skin generation. If a top layer is sloped, it will allow the Z axis to be moved along with the X and Y axis to create fuzzy skin that is perpendicular to the top surface of the model even at changing angles. It also allows TOP SURFACE fuzzy skin by making the Z axis move up and down while making the top surface and print the exact same fuzzy skin effect on the top layer. This is a MAJOR CHANGE in the slicer logic because it breaks the flat plane layer logic of the Z axis that is in ALL slicer engines today.
- In the future, this will be able to be used in conjunction with a 4th axis of the printer that allows the toolhead to tilt in both the X and Y directions so that it can print ROUNDED top surfaces on top of standard layer structure underneath. It will make the toolhead tilt with the curvature of the sliced mesh to allow a TOTALLY SMOOTH rounded top surface.

I will keep everyone updated with the latest improvements before release
